# Luna Lovegood
Luna Lovegood is a fictional character in the Harry Potter books written by J. K. Rowling. She was sorted in the House of Ravenclaw and first appears in the movies and the books in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.

Luna Lovegood was born on the 13th of February 1981. She is the daughter of Xenophilius Lovegood and Pandora Lovegood, and lives near the Weasley’s house, in a rook-like house in Devon. Her mother accidently died while experimenting with spells when Luna was nine. She was then raised by her father, editor of the magazine ‘The Quibbler’. She attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry from 1992-1999. Many people in the Harry Potter series think she is a strange girl. This has led to her having the nickname “Loony Lovegood”, but she does not change herself. She was in her first year at Hogwarts School Of Witchcraft and Wizardry in Harry Potter’s second year Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets and was in her fourth year when she first came into the series.

At that time, she joined Dumbledore’s Army, an organisation taught and led by Harry Potter, of which she became an important member - and also a close friend of Harrys. From this moment on, she was part of many adventures Harry had to undertake on his path of destroying the dark wizard Lord Voldemort. In 1996, she participated in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, in 1997 in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower. She co-led the reconstituted Dumbledore’s Army when Hogwarts fell under the control of Lord Voldemort and when Harry was on the run with Ron and Hermione, trying, unknown by the others, to find and destroy the horcruxes that made Voldemort invincible.

But then, the story took a dark turn for Luna. Because of her father’s political dissidence at the time, Luna was abducted by Death Eaters to be held ransom, and imprisoned in the dungeons of Malfoy Manor for months to ensure that her father behaved. She was freed by Dobby along with several other prisoners in the spring of 1998, and stayed at Shell Cottage, home of Bill and Fleur Weasley, until she returned to Hogwarts to participate in the final battle of the Second Wizarding War.

After the series ended, J.K. Rowling said in an interview that Luna became the ‘Wizard equivalent of a naturalist’ and married fellow naturalist Rolf Scamander, grandson of the famous Newt Scamander, author of the book ‘Phantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them’. At her wedding, she wore a rainbow gown and a tiara made of unicorn horns, which Reeta Skeeter put on her top 10 ugliest dress occasions. Somewhere between 2008 and 2011 she had twin sons named Lorcan and Lysander. Luna’s good friends Harry and Ginny Potter also named their daughter and third child, Lily Luna Potter, in honour of her.